Objective:
To containerize a React application using a multi-stage Docker build for optimized image size and easy deployment via Nginx.

Project Setup (React Frontend)

React Application:
The frontend is built using React. You can either clone an existing project or create a new React app in your project directory.

Code Customization:
Edit src/App.js and src/App.css to design and style your application as needed. This allows you to implement your desired UI and functionality.

Docker Integration

Multi-Stage Dockerfile:
A multi-stage Dockerfile is used to build the React app and serve it via Nginx. Multi-stage builds ensure:

Development dependencies are excluded from the final image.

Only the production build is included, keeping the image size small (~81MB).

.dockerignore Configuration:
The .dockerignore file prevents unnecessary files (like node_modules, logs, and local config) from being copied into the Docker image, further reducing image size.

Build Steps:

Install dependencies:

npm install


Build the Docker image:

docker build -t exp25:latest .


Run Container:
Start the container with port mapping so the app can be accessed via a browser:

docker run -d -p 8080:80 --name exp25-container exp25:latest


Verify Deployment:

Open your browser at http://localhost:8080
 to view the app.

Check the image size using:

docker images exp25:latest


How the System Works Together

React builds the frontend into static files (build folder).

Nginx serves these static files efficiently in a production-ready environment.

Multi-stage Docker build ensures only production files are included, keeping the image lightweight.

Any code changes require rebuilding the image and restarting the container to update the deployed app.

Learning Outcomes

React Production Build: Learned how to build and serve a production-ready React app.

Docker Multi-Stage Builds: Gained experience in creating optimized Docker images using multi-stage builds.

Container Deployment: Understood containerization and running apps via Docker with port mapping.

Frontend Deployment via Nginx: Learned how Nginx serves static files efficiently in production.

Use Cases

Web Application Deployment: Easily deploy any React application in a lightweight Docker container.

CI/CD Integration: Suitable for automated build and deployment pipelines.

Microservices Frontend Hosting: Host frontend services separately in containers for scalable architecture.

Local Development Testing: Quickly run production-like environments locally before deploying.
